Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Drama, Mystery,
Sci-fi film from 2015, titled Project Almanac.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
High school senior genius - David is testing
an experiment with his friends Adam and Quinn.
The video is for a scholarship to MIT University.
David shows off an aircraft he made that he can
control with a material placed on his fingers.
The gang sets the craft loose outside when someone
calls David's phone, jamming the signal on Quinn's
laptop to connect with the craft. The craft
plummets to the ground and crashes. Still the
experiment was a complete success in David’s eyes.
A few weeks later David’s sister (Christina) is
the camera operator and is filming as David gets
an envelope from MIT. He gathers with Christina
and their mom Kathy, along with Adam and Quinn,
to open it. David gets into MIT, but
to his disappointment, he only receives
$5,000 instead of the proposed $45,000.
At school, we learn that David has a crush
on a girl named Jessie Pierce. Back home,
David and Christina discover that Kathy is
trying to sell the house to help her son with MIT
tuition. David is rummaging through the attic,
trying to find one of his father’s ideas to
submit for reappraisal for the scholarship to MIT.
Christina comes upstairs and they find a videotape
of David's 7th birthday party. It was the last
day the two saw their dad Ben before he died
in a car crash. The two look at the video,
David notices something strange - he, in his
current age, is physically visible in the video.
He shows the tape to Adam and Quinn, both of them
are surprised. Christina still tries to find some
logic in this, but then David shows his shirt.
He is wearing the same shirt as in the video.
David obsesses over the video and notices
details like a blue stain on his shirt and
holding keys with a ballerina figure keychain.
He looks in his bag and notices he's actually
holding Jessie's bag. David goes over to return
it to her and awkwardly tries to talk to her.
He returns the bag, and she
congratulates him on getting into MIT.
The gang retraces the steps from the old video
footage to see what David was doing in it,
they find a light switch to the basement. They
go downstairs and uncover a secret hatch in the
floor containing blueprints for a temporal
relocation prototype or a time machine.
At first David himself thinks that this is
crazy, they can’t build a time machine, but
then Quinn says they already built it considering
the old videotape. The boys get excited and begin
to gather the materials they need from home depot
to build it. Initially the machine appears to be
working, creating electromagnetic energy, then
it all goes haywire. They learn how to control
the time machine navigation with the help of a
graphics processor from Quinn’s XBOX. They are
having fun while building the time machine. David
points out that with the charge they have now,
the furthest they can go back in time is three
weeks. They manage to activate something that
causes objects in the basement to levitate, water
in a glass to whirlpool, and as Quinn puts his
hand on the time machine primary device, his hand
is traveling between space-time. Unfortunately,
the batteries keep short-circuiting. David’s shirt
gets stained the same way as in the old videotape.
They deduce that they are close to finishing
the machine, motivating the gang even after
a failed attempt. After a few failed tests, they
conclude that they need hydrogen for power fusion.
Since you can’t legally obtain it as teenagers,
they decide to steal hydrogen canisters from the
school to charge their batteries properly.
The group doesn’t have a power source big
enough to supply the device. A party is happening
next door. Jessie brings her car and parks it in
David's driveway. They decide to hook up their
cables to Jessie’s car battery to test their next
experiment: they are trying to send Christina's
red toy Corvette one minute back in time. They
manage to activate the machine. Just as Jessie
comes in, she sees what they're doing to her
car. The room begins to shake, and objects start
floating, and then all the power on the street
goes out. When the lights go back on, the gang
sees that the toy car did go through the time and
is somehow fused to the wall, and it went back two
hours. They look at the GoPro that they attached
to the car and see that it was already sitting
there recording them as they set up the machine.
At school David makes a sketch of the time
machine in a backpack to carry it with them.
In the meantime, Quinn flops his chemistry test.
After seeing Jessie’s keychain, she joins the gang
as they show her David's birthday video and prove
what they can do. They get together that night
in the neighborhood, and after tinkering with
the machine, they attempt to go back 24 hours.
After setting up go-pro to film everything,
they activate the machine and jump through time.
The gang is left deafened and disoriented for a
brief moment trying to come back to their senses.
They then run to Quinn's home, where
Quinn was sleeping the previous night.
Quinn draws a smiley face on his sleeping self’s
neck. Past Quinn then rolls over and wakes up and
sees his future self. This causes a glitch in
time, and the two of them start to disappear.
The gang runs out of there and then excitedly
jumps for the fact that they have successfully
time-leaped. When they get back to the area
where they made the jump, they find a dog.
As they drive through the streets, they
notice many "missing dog" flyers that
weren't there earlier. They return the dog to
its rightful owner. Jessie drives everyone home.
David tries to kiss her in the car, but he
interrupts it, and the exchange becomes awkward.
They start to imagine the possibilities of their
newfound ability and decide to utilize it for
personal matters as long as they all time-jump
together. Quinn uses it to do his chemistry test
until he finally aces it. The third time was
the charm. Christina uses it to catch Sarah
moments after she caused Christina to spill her
drink, only for Future Christina to show up and
purposely spill drinks on Sarah, humiliating
her and declaring, "I'm everywhere, b*tch!"
Adam has the gang time jump so they can win the
lottery. However, he only got five out of the
six numbers right, and after taxes, they only
make 1.8 million. They are saddened because the
main prize was 53 million dollars. The gang goes
on a spending spree, Quinn uses the money to buy
himself a cool car. David gives Kathy money so
she doesn’t have to sell the house. Christina
goes shopping. Also David orders better parts
for the time machine to extend their time leap to
ten years. Quinn brings a food truck line to the
school and feels proud when his name is chanted.
During class, David pulls the gang out of class
to meet under the bleachers. They jump to three
months ago for Lollapalooza. They are having
the time of their life, everything is possible,
and there are no consequences. They watch their
favorite bands play and even score VIP passes
(after getting them cheaply on eBay in the
present) to go backstage and hang with the band.
They hang on water slides and party all day.
Before the day is over, David goes over to Jessie
as she checks out the wall that says, "Before the
world ends..." with some things people would do.
Jessie drops HUGE hints to David, like
going to the statement that reads,
"Before the world ends, I want to fall in
love." David misses the chance to make his move,
making him regret that. Christina and Adam hook
up. David depressingly calls off the whole thing,
and they jump back to the present, where only 41
seconds have passed. David and Jessie keep their
distance. The present started to change.
Kathy was jobless, but suddenly David and
Christine discovered she has a job. Christine’s
arch-nemesis Sarah is her best buddy, and Quinn
has over 18 thousand Instagram followers.
After rewatching the video from the music
festival, David, frustrated with this
outcome, jumps back alone to Lollapalooza,
even though they made ground rules to always
jump together no matter what. He makes his
move on Jessie. He kisses her and then returns to
the present. He's in his room and tries calling
Jessie, only to see her phone is on his desk. She
emerges from the bathroom wearing only a towel.
David asks her if they had sex. She says yes.
The two become an item, David notices odd things.
Kathy never was hired for her job position.
At the school basketball captain, Justin has a
broken leg. The chemistry teacher is fired. Sarah
walks by David crying. There's a banner hung up
that reads "Titans Basketball - Better Luck Next
Year.” After school, David learns from Adam and
Quinn that there was a plane crash that killed 77
people, including Sarah's dad, who was the pilot.
The boys start to deduce that it’s their fault, a
ripple effect because Justin broke his leg, Titans
didn’t make it to playoffs, player parents didn’t
attend the game, and it kept escalating beyond
their imagination. Everyone tries to convince
David that they have to go back and make it,
so they never went to Lollapalooza,
meaning he and Jessie never happened.
The gang meets up at night when David
tells Adam that he jumped alone.
Despite Adam telling him not to do it again,
David jumps back alone to the night of the party.
After he and the others killed the power when they
time leaped Christina's toy car, David runs into
the street and pushes Justin out of the path
of a car to prevent him from breaking his leg.
The other partygoers hail him as a hero. David
jumps back to the present and sees that not only
did the team win the championship, but the plane
landed safely. However, Adam lands in the hospital
following an incident after the basketball game.
David becomes increasingly anxious by the burden
of trying to solve everything independently. He
runs home and tries to figure out how to stop
Adam from being hurt. He gets the machine
ready when Jessie comes into the basement.
They both jump through time, and David is
forced to explain that he jumped alone to
go back and make his move on her. Jessie is
hurt and admits that she liked David since she
first met him and would use the machine to go
back and meet him sooner. Then, Jessie's past
self comes by, and once they see each other,
she completely vanishes into thin air, leaving
behind only her car keys, which David grabs.
Seeing no other way out, David decides he must
jump all the way back to his 7th birthday
to prevent the machine from ever existing.
Unfortunately he doesn’t have any hydrogen left.
Quinn goes to his home after Jessie goes missing.
David explains the whole situation to
him and apologizes for his mistake.
The police then show up at David's home,
suspecting him in Jessie's disappearance.
David escapes his home and runs to the school,
where he takes one more hydrogen canister.
He fuels the machine just as the cops
barge in, moments before he makes the jump.
David goes back ten years and makes it home. He
sees himself in the mirror, right where the video
first got him. He follows his dad to the basement,
and they come face-to-face. Ben recognizes his son
and realizes he got the machine to work. David
tells him that there are no second chances and
that they need to stop this. The two of them
hug, and Ben leaves. David gathers all the
components of the time machine and burns them.
His body repeatedly flickers until he vanishes.
David is back in the present, looking in the attic
where Christina finds him. They find both of their
dad's video cameras, which have footage of what
they were doing and saying mere seconds ago.
The gang is at school during the moment
when David sees he has Jessie's bag.
He goes over to give it to her with more
confidence, and he repeats a statement that Jessie
made to him the first time they spoke. When she
asks how he knew what she was going to say, David
leans in and says, "This is gonna sound crazy,
but I think we're about to change the world."
The End.
Thank you
for watching! Subscribe if you'd
like to see more videos like this.